---
title: Meet Up - Testing is a Team Problem with Lisa Crispin
date: 2020-02-18T16:16:57-05:00
author: Eddie Tseng
draft: false 
toc: false
images:
tags:
- TorontoMeetups
- testing
- TDD
---

< Article >

This was the first meet up that I’ve been to that wasn’t directly aimed for developers. I thought it was refreshing to be in a room surrounded by a bunch of different individuals who had much different perspectives about their contributions to the shipment of code.

Lisa described some of the problems that she encountered during her time as a tester:

* Many bugs were coming back to the development team
* QA was seen as the boss of what gets deployed
* Developers were not writing testable code

All of those points that I listed above are symptoms of the same problem: Testing generally isn’t seen as the whole team’s responsibility.

This is may can be attributed to the relationship between developers and QA. For some organizations, it can feel like QA is there to block developers from pushing code to production. But in reality, thats not the case at all.

Lisa emphasizes that the whole team is responsible for one thing: The consistent achievement of shippable code. When the whole team aligns towards this goal, the symptoms listed above will start heading towards a solution. There will be less bugs, QA will not be seen as a burden and developers can work together with QA to write testable more consistent quality code. Even going as far as pairing together to write code so that QA can see developer constraints and developers can see QA perspectives.

< /Article >

I’ll end by saying that I had originally wrote notes on piece of paper and have misplaced that paper. I went off of my memory and some of what is written will not be what Lisa had said verbatim, but you know how it goes.