---
title: Meet Up - An Evening with Sandi Metz
date: 2020-02-22T16:16:57-05:00
author: Eddie Tseng
draft: false 
toc: false
cover: &image 2020/coverphotos/sandimetz.jpg
images:
tags:
- TorontoMeetups
- OOP
---

< Article >

After this meet up, I grabbed my dictionary and under the definition for charismatic I found the name Sandi Metz.

Sandi, being a consultant for many years showed her relatability as someone who’s seen it all. 

Sandi expresses that the usual concepts that developers consider object oriented programming (OOP) isn’t really OOP at all. They’ve just hidden the chunks away into methods and other classes but haven’t really made the code any more object oriented. This is to highlight a problem that she’s noticed which is the complexity problem. Sandi has noticed that in many codebases there exists a “Death star class”. This is the a giant class that no one wants to touch and if anyone does, it just ends up being a pain in the ass.

The main issue is that the implementation of OOP requires planning and design. Good design that utilizes OOP’s strengths comes from designing around message sending or message oriented software.

Objects are always role-playing. They are more players of their role than they are instances of their type. Mastering the design of sending messages between the objects coupled with the SOLID OOP principles will ensure an overall lower complexity to understand and add more functionality to the codebase.

I think it’s way too much information to sum up in an article that Sandi will convey way better than I ever will. With that being said, it’s good internet etiquette to link to relevant resources so please checkout the link below. An Evening with Sandi Metz was an incredible talk and I want to thank Cover for making that happen.

If you’re looking for more of Sandi Metz’s work, please consider giving this book a read: Practical Object-Oriented Design In Ruby By Sandi Metz. It’s a great book that I’ve been reading myself and it’s definitely changed my views on how to use OOP.

Sandi's Blog on the SOLID principles: https://www.sandimetz.com/blog/2009/03/21/solid-design-principles

< /Article >